EZP-32195 - Perso API documentation rewrite pt. 1 (#1322)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/guide/personalization/developer_guide/user_api.md

# User API

> When generating recommendations, being able to correlate metadata with user data and combine users into clusters of certain type is beneficial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When generating recommendations, it is useful to be able to correlate metadata with user data
and combine users into clusters of certain type.
```

Such metadata can be gender, ZIP code, discount rate, etc. 
You can use the following user metadata import format to enrich the tracked data with information that cannot be calculated and must be provided by the end-user. 

> If you plan to import user metadata, contact <support@ibexa.co> to ensure that you are compliant with privacy regulations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you plan to import user metadata, contact support@ibexa.co to ensure that you are compliant with privacy regulations.
```

> !!! note "Authentication considerations"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! note "Authentication"
```

    For importing metadata, basic authentication is enabled by default.
    Use your customer ID and license key as username and password. 

>     If authentication is enabled for recommendation requests and you want change this, contact <support@ibexa.co>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If authentication is enabled for recommendation requests and you want to change this, contact support@ibexa.co.
```

    
## GET requests

Use the following request to fetch user attributes for the specified users:

`GET: https://import.yoochoose.net/api/[customerid]/[source]/user/[userid[,userid[...]]]`

User data is returned as an [XML object](#metadata-format).
Make sure that you use the **HTTP Content-Type=text/xml** header.

## POST requests

Use the following request to update the specified user's attribute set:

`POST: https://import.yoochoose.net/api/[customerid]/[source]/user`

## Request parameters

> For the requests to function, you must provide the following parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the requests to function, you must provide the following parameters:
```

|Parameter|Description|Value|
|---|---|---|
|`customerid`|Your customer ID, as defined when [enabling Personalization](../enabling_personalization.md#configuring-mandator-credentials) (for example, "00000").|alphanumeric|
|`source`|An ID of the source of the specified user's metadata.|alphanumeric|
|`userid`|An ID of the tracked user in the website (for example, an internal customer code, a session code or a cookie for anonymous users.|alphanumeric|
  
  !!! caution "Parameter encoding limitations"

      All parameters must be URL-encoded (see RFC 3986) and cannot contain slash, backslash or space 
      characters.
      
### Source

The `source` parameter defines the system that stores the specified user's metadata. 

> If you have multiple source systems for updating user attributes, for example, a registration service, 
> where users define their gender and age, or an application that integrates with Facebook to source 
> the brands the user "liked" in your shop, every new upload of attributes will replace the attribute 
> set that already exists for the same user/source pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have multiple source systems for updating user attributes,
for example, a registration service, where users define their gender and age,
or an application that integrates with Facebook to source the brands the user "liked" in your shop,
every new upload of attributes will replace the attribute set that already exists for the same user/source pair.
```

### User ID

User ID is a case-sensitive combination of characters.
If transferred as part of the URL, the attribute must be URL-encoded. 
If transferred in the XML object, the attribute must be XML-encoded.

For example:

| User ID             | URL encoded             | XML encoded               |
|---------------------|-------------------------|---------------------------|
| `Customer<12.2014>` | `Customer%3C12.2014%3E` | `Customer&lt;12.2014&gt;` |

## Metadata object format

For an example of user metadata, see the following XML code. 
The attribute keys and values are chosen at random.

``` xml
<users>
  <user id="YOUR_CUSTOMER_ID">
    <attributes>
      <attribute key="country" value="DE"  type="NOMINAL"/>
      <attribute key="discountrate" value="2" type="NUMERIC"/>
      <attribute key="wants" value="I am looking for good products here" type="TEXT"/>
      <attribute key="type" value="reseller"/>
      <attribute key="favorite_film_genre" value="comedy"/>
      <attribute key="favorite_film_genre" value="horror"/>
      <attribute key="favorite_film_genre" value="animation"/>
    </attributes>
  </user>
</users>
```

> Attribute keys are POSIX alphanumeric codes that can consist of the following characters: \[A-Z\], \[0-9\] plus "\_" and "-". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attribute keys are POSIX alphanumeric codes that can consist of the following characters: `\[A-Z\]`, `\[0-9\]` plus `"\_"` and `"-"`. 
```
